Electric motorbike startup bags $2.6 mln seed funding
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/companies/electric-motorbike-startup-bags-2-6-mln-seed-funding-4265019.html
Dat Bike, a Vietnamese electric motorbike startup, has raised $2.6 million in seed funding from a group of investors led by Singapore venture capital firm Jungle Ventures.. . Dat Bike’s flagship electric motorbike, Weaver. Photo by VnExpress/Ny Bui.. . U.S. venture capital firms Wavemaker Partners, Hustle Fund and iSeed Ventures are the others.. . The startup plans to establish a supply chain in Southeast Asia in the next two to three years.. . Amit Anand, founding partner of Jungle Ventures, said: "We believe that Dat Bike will lead the mobility sector and create a new benchmark not just in the region but potentially globally for what the next generation of two-wheeler electric vehicles will look and perform like.". . It is Jungle Ventures’ first investment in the mobility sector, he said, explaining his firm decided to invest since it was impressed that the startup, with an initial funding of less than $1 million, had managed to produce its own electric motorbikes within two years.. . Talking to VnExpress, Dat Bike founder Nguyen Ba Canh Son said the money would help expand production capacity and fund R&D.. . Son founded Dat Bike in December 2018 after quitting his job in the U.S.’s Silicon Valley.. . Its flagship and first electric motorbike, Weaver, is powered with a 5,000W motor and has a top speed of 80 kilometers per hour. Its battery can be fully charged within three hours.. . It costs VND39.9 million ($1,734).. . Its plant in the southern province of Binh Duong has a capacity of 1,000 motorbikes a month.. . It opened its first store in HCMC last December, and Son said sales have been growing at 35 percent a month since then.. . Dat Bike sources all its components domestically. Son said the benefits of this, instead of sourcing from China and other countries, include streamlined logistics and a more efficient supply chain.
