Fireworks to light up Phu Tho in commemoration of Hung Kings
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/travel/places/fireworks-to-light-up-phu-tho-in-commemoration-of-hung-kings-4264403.html
Fireworks to light up Phu Tho in commemoration of Hung Kings. . The Hung Kings Temple on Nghia Linh Mountain in Phu Tho Province, northern Vietnam. Photo by VnExpress/Trung Nghia.. . High-altitude fireworks will be set off in Phu Tho Province on the death anniversary of Hung Kings, the nation's mythical founders.. . Provincial authorities, upon approval by the government, will organize a fireworks display within 15 minutes next Tuesday night at Van Lang Lake in Viet Tri Town to commemorate the Hung Kings (2879-258 BCE).. . Vietnamese celebrate the anniversary on the 10th of the third lunar month each year (Wednesday, April 21 this year). The kings are believed to have made great contributions in forming the nation from its very start.. . For fears of Covid-19 outbreaks, authorities will cut some ceremonies and restrict numerous entertainment activities at this year's festival that will be held at the Hung Kings Temple on Nghia Linh Mountain in Phu Tho, which neighbors Hanoi.. . Authorities also encourage families to prepare rice trays to commemorate the kings at home, instead of gathering in crowds to limit the risk of coronavirus infection.. . The management board of Hung Kings Temple will spray disinfectant at incense offering sites while visitors to the festival are asked to wear face masks, and keep a safe distance.. . The provincial Department of Health will arrange ambulances, set up a mobile emergency team, and deploy staff to check visitors' body temperatures.. . Vietnam has gone over two months without community transmissions. Health Minister Nguyen Thanh Long Friday warned the risk of a new Covid-19 outbreak in Vietnam was "very high" amid a significant surge in community transmissions in neighboring countries.. . The latest Covid-19 outbreak in Vietnam in late January came just a few weeks before Lunar New Year, the country's biggest holiday, forcing many localities to cancel firework shows for Tet, a long-standing tradition in Vietnam.
