Vietnamese travelers seek out beach destinations ahead of national holiday
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/news/vietnam-prepared-to-deal-with-blood-clot-complications-following-covid-vaccination-4265404.html
An aerial view of Thom Islet on Phu Quoc Island, southern Vietnam. Photo by VnExpress/Khanh Tran.. . Seven out of the 10 most sought after destinations by Vietnamese tourists prior to the upcoming four-day national holiday comprise famous beach getaways, according to Booking.com.. . Vung Tau, a popular beach town in southern Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province, came second in the list of 10, followed by central beach city Da Nang, Nha Trang, and Phu Quoc, Vietnam's largest island off southern Kien Giang Province, according to data based on the bookings for April 30-May 3 collected by the world's biggest accommodation website.. . Hoi An, home to beautiful beaches like Cua Dai and An Bang, ranked eighth while Ha Long, a popular bay in northern Quang Ninh Province, came in ninth.. . Mui Ne, a coastal destination in central Binh Thuan Province, often referred to as "a seaside paradise" for windsurfing, surfing, jet-skiing, and kayaking, ranked 10th.. . Mui Ne beach in Binh Thuan Province, central Vietnam. Photo by Shutterstock/Andy Tran.. . Da Lat, much loved for its year-round cool climate, green pine forests and misty landscape, was the most sought for holiday destination by Vietnamese travelers.. . Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam's southern metropolis, came in sixth while Sa Pa, a famous highlands town in northern Lao Cai Province, secured seventh spot.. . Vietnam will celebrate a four-day national holiday for Reunification Day (April 30) and Labor Day (May 1).. . With the nation having contained its Covid-19 outbreaks, domestic air travel has returned to normal.. . Vietnam's latest Covid-19 outbreak in late January came just a few weeks before the Lunar New Year (Tet), its biggest holiday, forcing many people to cancel travel plans. The country has gone over two months without community transmissions.
