Green bonds pique Vietnamese investor interest
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/companies/trungnam-group-sells-stake-in-solar-power-plant-4265372.html
The global green bond market has surpassed the $1 trillion cumulative issuance since its inception in 2007, an impressive growth rate, according to Climate Bonds green bond database.. . Simultaneously, appetite from the emerging markets is also on the rise. In Vietnam, multiple policies and action plans toward green and sustainable economic development have been promoted, including green strategies in the financial market sector.. . At the 7th Joint Meeting of the ASEAN Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in Brunei last month, Deputy Minister of Finance Tran Xuan Ha affirmed Vietnam's commitment in promoting green and sustainable financial markets, with priority given to accelerating the development of Vietnam's green bond market.. . The Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) Vietnam and Vietnam Community of Investment Professionals (A CFA Society in formation) co-organized the webinar "Green Bonds - The fast-emerging market" on March 26 to share international practices on green bonds and insights into the Vietnamese market.. . The webinar demonstrated peak interest for green bonds from the Vietnamese market. It would be followed by a series of trainings and webinars on different topics of green bonds including executive trainings on sustainable finance and capacity building for green bond issuers, investors and verifiers, within the framework of "Vietnam Green Bond Readiness Program" implemented by GGGI Vietnam and the Ministry of Finance.. . "Vietnam is a shining star in Covid-19 response, but our economy is not exempted from the global downturn. This is a challenge, but I also see an opportunity to build back better. GGGI stands by Vietnam to support its implementation of successful green recovery," stated Hanh, GGGI Vietnam Country representative, at the workshop.. . Srinath Komarina, program manager of GGGI Vietnam. Photo by: GGGI Vietnam.. . The "Vietnam Green Bond Readiness Program", implemented under the MOU signed between GGGI and the Ministry of Finance in October 2020, aims to develop the green bond market in Vietnam through policy advice, capacity building and technical assistance on actual green bond issuance.. . International expert in green finance, Srinath Komarina, program manager of GGGI Vietnam, claimed 2020 marked a leap in sustainable finance, hitting a new record with the highest issuance in a year, at $732.1 billion (a 30 percent increase from 2019). Meanwhile, green bonds grew to a record $305.3 billion while social bonds jumped seven fold to $147.7 billion.. . Indicators from international and regional markets suggest green bonds have great potential in Vietnam though the market still lacks preferable conditions for green projects. Incentives from the government like tax exemption for coupons of green bonds as well as local capacity building for green bond verifiers to decrease issuance costs were some suggestions from domestic investors.. . Participants also inquired about the application of the EU’s Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation in Vietnam and technicalities of rating green bonds.. . GGGI was established as an international intergovernmental organization in 2012 at the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. Its vision is "a low-carbon, resilient world of strong, inclusive, and sustainable growth" and its mission "to support members in the transformation of their economies into a green growth economic model.". . GGGI offers technical assistance to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Paris Agreement; create green jobs; increase access to sustainable services (such as clean affordable energy, sustainable waste management); improve air quality; sustain natural capital for adequate supply of ecosystem services; and enhance adaptation to climate change.
