Italian president confers Order of the Star on Hanoi professor
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/news/italian-president-confers-order-of-the-star-on-hanoi-professor-4262972.html
Associate Professor Ta Hai Tung (R) receives the Order of the Star from Italian ambassador to Vietnam Antonio Alessandro. Photo by VnExpress/Duong Tam.. . Associate Professor Ta Hai Tung has received the Ordine della Stella d'Italia for stellar contributions to promoting sci-tech connections between Vietnam and Italy.. . Tung, head of the International Research Institute for Multimedia, Information, Communication and Applications (MICA) at the Hanoi University of Science and Technology, received the Order of the Star of Italy from Italian ambassador Antonio Alessandro at an event held at the university Wednesday.. . The order, granted by the president of Italy, is conferred on Italians abroad or foreigners who have made especially meritorious contributions to promoting friendly relations and cooperation between Italy and other countries.. . Tung obtained his master from the Polytechnic University of Turin, Italy before defending his doctorate in Electronics and Telecommunications from the school in 2010.. . He made important contributions to the Italian research industry with many papers published in prestigious, specialized journals, the ambassador noted.. . Between 2011 and 2018, Tung worked as director of the International Collaboration Center for Research and Development on Satellite Navigation Technology in South East Asia (NAVIS), a collaboration between the Hanoi University of Science and Technology and the Polytechnic University of Turin. The international center specializes in studying and applying satellite navigation technologies.. . Tung has contributed significantly to the transfer of Italian and European navigating technologies to Vietnam towards improving local capabilities.. . As head of the MICA since 2018, Tung has been working closely with the NavSAS, or Navigation Signal Analysis and Simulation, which works to promote technological and economic growth through various activities including research exchange.. . "We highly appreciate Tung's contributions in promoting international scientific cooperation, which works as a tool to promote sustainable development and improve the quality of life in Vietnam and in the countries that he works with," ambassador Alessandro said.. . For his part, Tung said living and working in Italy gave the opportunity to appreciate and promote cooperation between the two countries in many fields, especially culture and education.. . "Once I returned to Vietnam, my partners and I have done our best to promote cooperation between the two nations in high-level scientific research and training for mutual benefit," he said.
